<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

Copyright (C) 1996 The Regents of the University of California.
All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for educational, research and non-profit purposes,
without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and the
following three paragraphs appear in all copies.

This software program and documentation are copyrighted by The Regents
of the University of California. The software program and
documentation are supplied "as is", without any accompanying services
from The Regents. The Regents does not warrant that the operation of
the program will be uninterrupted or error-free. The end-user
understands that the program was developed for research purposes and
is advised not to rely exclusively on the program for any reason.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND
ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS"
BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE
MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.
-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
        <title>Non-Linear Independant Source</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="doc.css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <span class="intro">
            <big>Non-Linear Independant Source</big>
            <br/>
            <br/>
            General form:
            <br/>
            <code>BXXXXXXX N+ N- [I=EXPR]| [V=EXPR]</code>
            <br/>
            <br/>
            Examples:
            <br/>
            <code>B1 0 1 I=cos(v(1))+sin(v(2))</code><br/>
            <code>B1 0 1 V=ln(cos(log(v(1,2)^2)))-v(3)^4+v(2)^v(1)</code><br/>
            <code>B1 3 4 I=17</code><br/>
            <code>B1 3 4 V=exp(pi^i(vdd))</code><br/>
        </span>
        <p>
            <var>N+</var> is the positive node, and <var>N-</var> is the negative node.
            The values of the <var>V</var> and <var>I</var> parameters determine the
            voltages and currents across and through the device, respectively.
            If <var>I</var> is given then the device is a current source, and if <var>V</var> is given the
            device is a voltage source.  One and only one of these parameters must be given.
        </p>
        <p>
            The small-signal AC behaviour of the nonlinear source is a linear
            dependent source (or sources) with a proportionality constant equal to
            the derivative (or derivatives) of the source at the DC operating point.
        </p>
        <p>
            The expressions given for <var>V</var> and <var>I</var> may be any function of voltages and
            currents through voltage sources in the system.  The following functions
            of real variables are defined:
        </p>
        <table>
            <tr><td>abs</td><td>asinh</td><td>cosh</td><td>sin</td></tr>
            <tr><td>acos</td><td>atan</td><td>exp</td><td>sinh</td></tr>
            <tr><td>acosh</td><td>atanh</td><td>ln</td><td>sqrt</td></tr>
            <tr><td>asin</td><td>cos</td><td>log</td><td>tan</td></tr>
        </table>
        <p>
            The function "u" is the unit step function, with a value of one for
            arguments greater than zero and a value of zero for arguments less than
            zero.  The function "uramp" is the integral of the unit step: for an
            input x, the value is zero if x is less than zero, or if x is greater
            than zero the value is x. The function "u2" returns a value of zero for
            arguments less than zero, one for arguments greater than one and assumes
            the value of the argument between these limits .These three functions are
            useful in sythesizing piece-wise non-linear functions, though convergence
            may be adversely affected.
        </p>
        <p>
            The following standard operators are defined:
        </p>
        <code>+       -       *       /       { }      unary -</code>
        <p>
            If the argument of log, ln, or sqrt becomes less than zero, the absolute
            value of the argument is used.  If a divisor becomes zero or the
            argument of log or ln becomes zero, an error will result.  Other
            problems may occur when the argument for a function in a partial
            derivative enters a region where that function is undefined.
        </p>
        <p>
            To get time into the expression you can integrate the current from a
            constant current source with a capacitor and use the resulting voltage
            (don't forget to set the initial voltage across the capacitor).
            Non-linear resistors, capacitors, and inductors may be synthesized with
            the nonlinear dependent source.  Non-linear resistors are obvious.
            Nonlinear capacitors and inductors are implemented with their linear
            counterparts by a change of variables implemented with the nonlinear
            dependent source.  The following subcircuit will implement a nonlinear
            capacitor:
        </p>
        <code>.Subckt nlcap   pos neg</code><br/>
        <code>* Bx: calculate f(input voltage)</code><br/>
        <code>Bx   1    0    v = f(v(pos,neg))</code><br/>
        <code>* Cx: linear capacitance</code><br/>
        <code>Cx   2    0    1</code><br/>
        <code>* Vx: Ammeter to measure current into the capacitor</code><br/>
        <code>Vx   2    1    DC 0Volts</code><br/>
        <code>* Drive the current through Cx back into the circuit</code><br/>
        <code>Fx   pos  neg  Vx 1</code><br/>
        <code>.ends</code>
        <p>Non-linear inductors are similar.</p>
        <!--
        <table border="1">
            <tr><th>ASRC - localInstance parameters (input-only)</th></tr>
            <tr><td>i</td><td>Current source</td></tr>
            <tr><td>v</td><td>Voltage source</td></tr>
            <tr><th>ASRC - localInstance parameters (output-only)</th></tr>
            <tr><td>i</td><td>Current through source</td></tr>
            <tr><td>v</td><td>Voltage across source</td></tr>
            <tr><td>posIndex</td><td>Positive Node</td></tr>
            <tr><td>negIndex</td><td>Negative Node</td></tr>
        </table>
	-->
    </body>
</html>
