<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

Copyright (C) 1996 The Regents of the University of California.
All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for educational, research and non-profit purposes,
without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and the
following three paragraphs appear in all copies.

This software program and documentation are copyrighted by The Regents
of the University of California. The software program and
documentation are supplied "as is", without any accompanying services
from The Regents. The Regents does not warrant that the operation of
the program will be uninterrupted or error-free. The end-user
understands that the program was developed for research purposes and
is advised not to rely exclusively on the program for any reason.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND
ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS"
BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE
MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.
-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
        <title>Bipolar-Junction Transistor</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="doc.css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <span class="intro">
            <big>Bipolar-Junction Transistor</big>
            <br/>	<br/>
            General form:
            <br/>
            <code>
                QXXXXXXX NC NB NE [NS] MNAME [AREA=VALUE] [AREAC=VALUE] [AREAB=VALUE]
                [M=VALUE] [OFF] [IC=VBE, VCE] [TEMP=VALUE] [DTEMP=VALUE]
            </code>
            <br/>
            <br/>
            Examples:
            <br/>
            <code>Q23 10 24 13 QMOD IC=0.6, 5.0</code><br/>
            <code>Q50A 11 26 4 20 MOD1</code><br/>
        </span>
        <p>
            <var>NC</var>, <var>NB</var>, and <var>NE</var> are the collector, base, and
            emitter nodes, respectively. <var>NS</var> is the (optional) substrate
            node.If unspecified, ground is used.  <var>MNAME</var> is the model name,
            <var>AREA</var>, <var>AREAB</var>, <var>AREAC</var> are the area factors, and
            <var>OFF</var> indicates an (optional) initial condition on the device
            for the dc analysis.  If the area factor is omitted, a value of 1.0 is
            assumed.  The (optional) initial condition specification using
            <var>IC=vbe, vce</var> is intended for use with the  <var>UIC</var>
            <span class="command">.tran</span> control line, when a transient analysis is desired
            starting from other than the quiescent operating point.  See the
            <span class="command">.ic</span> control line description for a better way to set
            transient initial conditions.  The (optional) <var>TEMP</var> value is
            the temperature at which this device is to operate, and overrides the
            temperature specification on the <span class="command">.option</span> control line. Using
            <var>DTEMP</var> option you can specify instance's temperature relative
            to the circuit temperature.
        </p>
        <p>
            NGSPICE provides two BJT device models. The <var>LEVEL</var> specifies the
            model to be used:
        </p>
        <p>
            level=1 : This is the original spice BJT model, and it is the
            default model if the <var>LEVEL</var> keyword is not
		specified on the <span class="command">.model</span> line.
        </p>
        <p>
            level=2 : This is a modified version of the original spice
            BJT that models both vertical and lateral devices and
		includes temperature corrections of collector,
		emitter and base resistors.
        </p>
        <a name="model">BJT Models (NPN/PNP)</a>
        <p>
            The bipolar junction transistor model in NGSPICE is an adaptation of the
            integral charge control model of Gummel and Poon.  This modified
            Gummel-Poon model extends the original model to include several effects
            at high bias levels.  The model automatically simplifies to the simpler
            Ebers-Moll model when certain parameters are not specified.  The
            parameter names used in the modified Gummel-Poon model have been chosen
            to be more easily understood by the program user, and to reflect better
            both physical and circuit design thinking.
        </p>
        <p>
            The dc model is defined by the parameters <var>IS</var>, <var>BF</var>,
            <var>NF</var>, <var>ISE</var>, <var>IKF</var>, amd <var>NE</var> which determine
            the forward current gain characteristics, <var>IS</var>, <var>BR</var>,
            <var>NR</var>, <var>ISC</var>, <var>IKR</var>, and <var>NC</var> which determine
            the reverse current gain characteristics, and <var>VAF</var> and <var>VAR</var>
            which determine the output conductance for forward and reverse regions.
            Level 2 model includes substrate saturation current <var>ISS</var>.
        </p>
        <p>
            Three ohmic resistances <var>RB</var>, <var>RC</var>, and <var>RE</var>
            are included, where <var>RB</var> can be high current dependent.  Base charge
            storage is modelled by forward and reverse transit times, <var>TF</var> and
            <var>TR</var>, the forward transit time <var>TF</var> being bias dependent if
            desired, and nonlinear depletion layer capacitances which are determined by
            <var>CJE</var>, <var>VJE</var>, and <var>NJE</var> for the B-E junction, <var>CJC</var>,
            <var>VJC</var>, and <var>NJC</var> for the B-C junction and <var>CJS</var>,
            <var>VJS</var>, and <var>MJS</var> for the C-S (Collector-Substrate) junction.
            Level 2 model defines a substrate capacitance that will be connected to
            device's base or collector, to model lateral or vertical devices.
        </p>
        <p>
            The temperature dependence of the saturation currents, <var>IS</var> and
            <var>ISS</var> (for level 2 model), is determined by the energy-gap,
            <var>EG</var>, and the saturation current temperature exponent, <var>XTI</var>.
            Additionally base current temperature dependence is modelled by the beta
            temperature exponent <var>XTB</var> in the new model.  The values specified
            are assumed to have been measured at the temperature <var>TNOM</var>, which
            can be specified on the <span class="command">.options</span> control line or overridden by
            a specification on the <span class="command">.model</span> line.
        </p>
        <p>
            The BJT parameters used in the modified Gummel-Poon model are listed
            below.<!--  The parameter names used in earlier versions of SPICE2 are still
            accepted.-->
        </p>
        <table border="1">
            <thead><strong>Modified Gummel-Poon BJT Parameters:</strong></thead>
        <tbody>
            <tr><td>Name</td><td>Parameter</td><td>Units</td><td>Default</td><td>Example</td><td>Scale Factor</td></tr>
            <tr><td>SUBS</td><td>substrate connection: 1 for vertical geometry, -1 for lateral geometry. (level 2 only)</td>
                <td>-</td><td>1</td><td>1.0e-15</td></tr>
            <tr><td>IS</td><td>transport saturation current</td>
                <td>A</td><td>1.0e-16</td><td>1.0e-15</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ISS</td>
                <td>reverse saturation current, substrate-to-collector for vertical device or substrate-to-base for lateral(level 2 only)</td>
                <td>A</td><td>1.0e-16</td><td>1.0e-15</td></tr>
            <tr><td>BF</td><td>ideal maximum forward beta</td><td>-</td><td>100</td><td>100</td></tr>
            <tr><td>NF</td><td>forward current emission coefficient</td><td>-</td><td>1.0</td><td>1</td></tr>
            <tr><td>VAF</td><td>forward Early voltage</td><td>V</td><td>infinite</td><td>200</td></tr>
            <tr><td>IKF</td><td>corner for forward beta current roll-off</td><td>A</td><td>infinite</td><td>0.01</td><td>area</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ISE</td><td>B-E leakage saturation current</td><td>A</td><td>0</td><td>1.0e-13</td></tr>
            <tr><td>NE</td><td>B-E leakage emission coefficient</td><td>-</td><td>1.5</td><td>2</td></tr>
            <tr><td>BR</td><td>ideal maximum reverse beta</td><td>-</td><td>1</td><td>0.1</td></tr>
            <tr><td>NR</td><td>reverse current emission coefficient</td>
                <td>-</td><td>1</td><td>1</td></tr>
            <tr><td>VAR</td><td>reverse Early voltage</td><td>V</td><td>infinite</td><td>200</td></tr>
            <tr><td>IKR</td><td>corner for reverse beta high current roll-off</td><td>A</td><td>infinite</td><td>0.01</td><td>area</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ISC</td><td>B-C leakage saturation current (area is "AREAB" for vertical devices and "AREAC" for lateral)</td>
                <td>A</td><td>0</td><td>1.0e-13</td></tr>
            <tr><td>NC</td><td>B-C leakage emission coefficient</td><td>-</td><td>2</td><td>1.5</td></tr>
            <tr><td>RB</td><td>zero bias base resistance</td><td>Z</td><td>0</td><td>100</td><td>area</td></tr>
            <tr><td>IRB</td><td>current where base resistance falls halfway to its min value</td><td>A</td><td>infinite</td><td>0.1</td><td>area</td></tr>
            <tr><td>RBM</td><td>minimum base resistance at high currents</td><td>Z</td><td>RB</td><td>10</td><td>area</td></tr>
            <tr><td>RE</td><td>emitter resistance  Z</td><td>0</td><td>1</td><td>area</td></tr>
            <tr><td>RC</td><td>collector resistance  Z</td><td>0</td><td>10</td><td>area</td></tr>
            <tr><td>CJE</td><td>B-E zero-bias depletion capacitance  F</td><td>0</td><td>2pF</td><td>area</td></tr>
            <tr><td>VJE</td><td>B-E built-in potential</td><td>V</td><td>0.75</td><td>0.6</td></tr>
            <tr><td>MJE</td><td>B-E junction exponential factor</td><td>-</td><td>0.33</td><td>0.33</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TF</td><td>ideal forward transit time</td><td>sec</td><td>0</td><td>0.1ns</td></tr>
            <tr><td>XTF</td><td>coefficient for bias dependence of TF</td>
                <td>-</td><td>0</td><td>-</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>VTF</td>
                <td>voltage describing VBC dependence of TF</td>
                <td>V</td><td>infinite</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ITF</td>
                <td>high-current parameter for effect on TF</td>
                <td>A</td><td>0</td><td>-</td><td>area</td></tr>
            <tr><td>PTF</td>
                <td>excess phase at freq=1.0/(TF*2PI) Hz</td>
                <td>deg</td><td>0</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>CJC</td>
                <td>B-C zero-bias depletion capacitance (area is "AREAB" for vertical devices and "AREAC" for lateral)</td>
                <td>F</td><td>0</td><td>2pF</td></tr>
            <tr><td>VJC</td><td>B-C built-in potential</td><td>V</td><td>0.75</td><td>0.5</td></tr>
            <tr><td>MJC</td><td>B-C junction exponential factor</td><td>-</td><td>0.33</td><td>0.5</td></tr>
            <tr><td>XCJC</td>
                <td>fraction of B-C depletion capacitance connected to internal base node</td>
                <td>-</td><td>1</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TR</td><td>ideal reverse transit time</td><td>sec</td><td>0</td><td>10ns</td></tr>
            <tr><td>CJS</td>
                <td>zero-bias collector-substrate capacitance (area is "AREAC" for vertical devices and"AREAB" for lateral)</td>
                <td>F</td><td>0</td><td>2pF</td></tr>
            <tr><td>VJS</td>
                <td>substrate junction built-in potential</td>
                <td>V</td><td>0.75</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>MJS</td><td>substrate junction exponential factor</td><td>-</td><td>0</td><td>0.5</td></tr>
            <tr><td>XTB</td>
                <td>forward and reverse beta temperature exponent</td>
                <td>0</td><td>-</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>EG</td>
                <td>energy gap for temperature effect on IS</td>
                <td>eV</td><td>1.11</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>XTI</td>
                <td>temperature exponent for effect on IS</td>
                <td>-</td><td>3</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>KF</td>
                <td>flicker-noise coefficient</td>
                <td>-</td><td>0</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>AF</td>
                <td>flicker-noise exponent</td>
                <td>-</td><td>1</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>FC</td>
                <td>coefficient for forward-bias depletion capacitance formula</td>
                <td>-</td><td>0.5</td><td>-</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TNOM</td><td>Parameter measurement temperature</td><td><sup>o</sup>C</td><td>27</td><td>50</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TRE1</td>
                <td>1st order temperature coefficient for RE(level 2 only)</td>
                <td>1/<sup>o</sup>C</td><td>0.0</td><td>1e-3</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TRE2</td>
                <td>2nd order temperature coefficient for RE (level 2 only)</td>
                <td>1/<sup>o</sup>C<sup>2</sup></td><td>0.0</td><td>1e-5</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TRC1</td>
                <td>1st order temperature coefficient for RC (level 2 only )</td>
                <td>1/<sup>o</sup>C</td><td>0.0</td><td>1e-3</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TRC2</td>
                <td>2nd order temperature coefficient for RC (level 2 only)</td>
                <td>1/<sup>o</sup>C<sup>2</sup></td><td>0.0</td><td>1e-5</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TRB1</td>
                <td>1st order temperature coefficient for RB (level 2 only)</td>
                <td>1/<sup>o</sup>C</td><td>0.0</td><td>1e-3</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TRB2</td>
                <td>2nd order temperature coefficient for RB(level 2 only)</td>
                <td>1/<sup>o</sup>C<sup>2</sup></td><td>0.0</td><td>1e-5</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TRB1</td>
                <td>1st order temperature coefficient for RBM (level 2 only)</td>
                <td>1/<sup>o</sup>C</td><td>TRB1</td><td>1e-3</td></tr>
            <tr><td>TRB2</td>
                <td>2nd order temperature coefficient for RBM (level 2 only)</td>
                <td>1/<sup>o</sup>C<sup>2</sup></td><td>TRB2</td><td>1e-5</td></tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>
    <!--
        <table border="1">
            <tr><th>BJT - Instance parameters (input-only)</th></tr>
            <tr><td>ic</td><td>Initial condition vector</td></tr>
            <tr><th>BJT - Instance parameters (input-output)</th></tr>
            <tr><td>off</td><td>Device initially off</td></tr>
            <tr><td>icvbe</td><td>Initial B-E voltage</td></tr>
            <tr><td>icvce</td><td>Initial C-E voltage</td></tr>
            <tr><td>area</td><td>Area factor</td></tr>
            <tr><td>temp</td><td>localInstance temperature</td></tr>
            <tr><th>BJT - Instance parameters (output-only)</th></tr>
            <tr><td>colnode</td><td>collector node index</td></tr>
            <tr><td>basenode</td><td>base node index</td></tr>
            <tr><td>emitnode</td><td>emitter node index</td></tr>
            <tr><td>substnode</td><td>substrate node index</td></tr>
            <tr><td>colprimenode</td><td>Internal collector node</td></tr>
            <tr><td>baseprimenode</td><td>Internal base node</td></tr>
            <tr><td>emitprimenode</td><td>Internal emitter node</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ic</td><td>Current at collector node</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ib</td><td>Current at base node</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ie</td><td>Emitter current</td></tr>
            <tr><td>is</td><td>Substrate current</td></tr>
            <tr><td>vbe</td><td>B-E voltage</td></tr>
            <tr><td>vbc</td><td>B-C voltage</td></tr>
            <tr><td>gm</td><td>Small signal transconductance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>gpi</td><td>Small signal input conductance - pi</td></tr>
            <tr><td>gmu</td><td>Small signal conductance - mu</td></tr>
            <tr><td>gx</td><td>Conductance from base to internal base</td></tr>
            <tr><td>go</td><td>Small signal output conductance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>geqcb</td><td>d(Ibe)/d(Vbc)</td></tr>
            <tr><td>gccs</td><td>Internal C-S cap. equiv. cond.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>geqbx</td><td>Internal C-B-base cap. equiv. cond.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cpi</td><td>Internal base to emitter capactance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cmu</td><td>Internal base to collector capactiance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cbx</td><td>Base to collector capacitance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ccs</td><td>Collector to substrate capacitance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cqbe</td><td>Cap. due to charge storage in B-E jct.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cqbc</td><td>Cap. due to charge storage in B-C jct.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cqcs</td><td>Cap. due to charge storage in C-S jct.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cqbx</td><td>Cap. due to charge storage in B-X jct.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cexbc</td><td>Total Capacitance in B-X junction</td></tr>
            <tr><td>qbe</td><td>Charge storage B-E junction</td></tr>
            <tr><td>qbc</td><td>Charge storage B-C junction</td></tr>
            <tr><td>qcs</td><td>Charge storage C-S junction</td></tr>
            <tr><td>qbx</td><td>Charge storage B-X junction</td></tr>
            <tr><td>p</td><td>Power dissipation</td></tr>
            <tr><th>BJT - Instance parameters (input-output)</th></tr>
            <tr><td>npn</td><td>NPN type device</td></tr>
            <tr><td>pnp</td><td>PNP type device</td></tr>
            <tr><td>is</td><td>Saturation Current</td></tr>
            <tr><td>bf</td><td>Ideal forward beta</td></tr>
            <tr><td>nf</td><td>Forward emission coefficient</td></tr>
            <tr><td>vaf</td><td>Forward Early voltage</td></tr>
            <tr><td>va</td><td>null</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ikf</td><td>Forward beta roll-off corner current</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ik</td><td>null</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ise</td><td>B-E leakage saturation current</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ne</td><td>B-E leakage emission coefficient</td></tr>
            <tr><td>br</td><td>Ideal reverse beta</td></tr>
            <tr><td>nr</td><td>Reverse emission coefficient</td></tr>
            <tr><td>var</td><td>Reverse Early voltage</td></tr>
            <tr><td>vb</td><td>null</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ikr</td><td>reverse beta roll-off corner current</td></tr>
            <tr><td>isc</td><td>B-C leakage saturation current</td></tr>
            <tr><td>nc</td><td>B-C leakage emission coefficient</td></tr>
            <tr><td>rb</td><td>Zero bias base resistance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>irb</td><td>Current for base resistance=(rb+rbm)/2</td></tr>
            <tr><td>rbm</td><td>Minimum base resistance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>re</td><td>Emitter resistance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>rc</td><td>Collector resistance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cje</td><td>Zero bias B-E depletion capacitance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>vje</td><td>B-E built in potential</td></tr>
            <tr><td>pe</td><td>null</td></tr>
            <tr><td>mje</td><td>B-E junction grading coefficient</td></tr>
            <tr><td>me</td><td>null</td></tr>
            <tr><td>tf</td><td>Ideal forward transit time</td></tr>
            <tr><td>xtf</td><td>Coefficient for bias dependence of TF</td></tr>
            <tr><td>vtf</td><td>Voltage giving VBC dependence of TF</td></tr>
            <tr><td>itf</td><td>High current dependence of TF</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ptf</td><td>Excess phase</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cjc</td><td>Zero bias B-C depletion capacitance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>vjc</td><td>B-C built in potential</td></tr>
            <tr><td>pc</td><td>null</td></tr>
            <tr><td>mjc</td><td>B-C junction grading coefficient</td></tr>
            <tr><td>mc</td><td>null</td></tr>
            <tr><td>xcjc</td><td>Fraction of B-C cap to internal base</td></tr>
            <tr><td>tr</td><td>Ideal reverse transit time</td></tr>
            <tr><td>cjs</td><td>Zero bias C-S capacitance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ccs</td><td>Zero bias C-S capacitance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>vjs</td><td>Substrate junction built in potential</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ps</td><td>null</td></tr>
            <tr><td>mjs</td><td>Substrate junction grading coefficient</td></tr>
            <tr><td>ms</td><td>null</td></tr>
            <tr><td>xtb</td><td>Forward and reverse beta temp. exp.</td></tr>
            <tr><td>eg</td><td>Energy gap for IS temp. dependency</td></tr>
            <tr><td>xti</td><td>Temp. exponent for IS</td></tr>
            <tr><td>fc</td><td>Forward bias junction fit parameter</td></tr>
            <tr><td>tnom</td><td>Parameter measurement temperature</td></tr>
            <tr><td>kf</td><td>Flicker Noise Coefficient</td></tr>
            <tr><td>af</td><td>Flicker Noise Exponent</td></tr>
            <tr><th>BJT - localInstance parameters (output-only)</th></tr>
            <tr><td>type</td><td>NPN or PNP</td></tr>
            <tr><td>invearlyvoltf</td><td>Inverse early voltage:forward</td></tr>
            <tr><td>invearlyvoltr</td><td>Inverse early voltage:reverse</td></tr>
            <tr><td>invrollofff</td><td>Inverse roll off - forward</td></tr>
            <tr><td>invrolloffr</td><td>Inverse roll off - reverse</td></tr>
            <tr><td>collectorconduct</td><td>Collector conductance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>emitterconduct</td><td>Emitter conductance</td></tr>
            <tr><td>transtimevbcfact</td><td>Transit time VBC factor</td></tr>
            <tr><td>excessphasefactor</td><td>Excess phase fact.</td></tr>
        </table>
    -->
</body>
</html>
