<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

Copyright (C) 1996 The Regents of the University of California.
All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for educational, research and non-profit purposes,
without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and the
following three paragraphs appear in all copies.

This software program and documentation are copyrighted by The Regents
of the University of California. The software program and
documentation are supplied "as is", without any accompanying services
from The Regents. The Regents does not warrant that the operation of
the program will be uninterrupted or error-free. The end-user
understands that the program was developed for research purposes and
is advised not to rely exclusively on the program for any reason.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND
ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS"
BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE
MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.
-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
        <title>TODO supply a title</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <p>
Lossy Transmission Lines

 General form:

<code>
  OXXXXXXX N1 N2 N3 N4 MNAME
</code>


 Examples:

<code>
  O23 1 0 2 0 LOSSYMOD
  OCONNECT 10 5 20 5 INTERCONNECT
</code>



This is a two-port convolution model for singleconductor lossy
transmission lines.  N1 and N2 are the nodes at port 1; N3 and N4 are
the nodes at port 2.  Note that a lossy transmission line with zero loss
may be more accurate than than the lossless transmission line due to
implementation details.



@node  Lossy Transmission Line Model (LTRA), Uniform Distributed RC Lines (Lossy), Lossy Transmission Lines, Transmission Lines
@subsection  Lossy Transmission Line Model (LTRA)


The uniform RLC/RC/LC/RG transmission line model (referred to as the
LTRA model henceforth) models a uniform constant-parameter distributed
transmission line.  The RC and LC cases may also be modelled using the
URC and TRA models; however, the newer LTRA model is usually faster and
more accurate than the others.  The operation of the LTRA model is based
on the convolution of the transmission line's impulse responses with its
inputs (see [8]).

The LTRA model takes a number of parameters, some of which must be given
and some of which are optional.

@multitable @columnfractions .15 .4 .2 .1 .1
@item name @tab parameter @tab units/type @tab default @tab example
@item name @tab parameter @tab units/type @tab default @tab example
@item R @tab resistance/length @tab Z/unit @tab 0.0 @tab 0.2
@item L @tab inductance/length @tab henrys/unit @tab 0.0 @tab 9.13e-9
@item G @tab conductance/length @tab mhos/unit @tab 0.0 @tab 0.0
@item C @tab capacitance/length @tab farads/unit @tab 0.0 @tab 3.65e-12
@item LEN @tab length of line @tab no default @tab 1.0
@item REL @tab breakpoint control @tab arbitrary unit @tab 1 @tab 0.5
@item ABS @tab breakpoint control @tab 1 @tab 5
@item NOSTEPLIMIT @tab don't limit timestep to less than line delay
      @tab flag @tab not set @tab set
@item NOCONTROL @tab don't do complex timestep control
      @tab flag @tab not set @tab set
@item LININTERP @tab use linear interpolation
      @tab flag @tab not set @tab set
@item MIXEDINTERP @tab use linear when quadratic seems bad
      @tab not set @tab set
@item COMPACTREL @tab special reltol for history compaction
      @tab flag @tab RELTOL @tab 1.0e-3
@item COMPACTABS @tab special abstol for history compaction
      @tab ABSTOL @tab 1.0e-9
@item TRUNCNR @tab use Newton-Raphson method for timestep control
      @tab flag @tab not set @tab set
@item TRUNCDONTCUT @tab don't limit timestep to keep impulse-response
errors low @tab flag @tab not set @tab set
@end multitable


The following types of lines have been implemented so far: RLC (uniform
transmission line with series loss only), RC (uniform RC line), LC
(lossless transmission line), and RG (distributed series resistance and
parallel conductance only).  Any other combination will yield erroneous
results and should not be tried.  The length LEN of the line must be
specified.

NOSTEPLIMIT is a flag that will remove the default restriction of
limiting time-steps to less than the line delay in the RLC case.
NOCONTROL is a flag that prevents the default limiting of the time-step
based on convolution error criteria in the RLC and RC cases.  This
speeds up simulation but may in some cases reduce the accuracy of
results.  LININTERP is a flag that, when specified, will use linear
interpolation instead of the default quadratic interpolation for
calculating delayed signals.  MIXEDINTERP is a flag that, when
specified, uses a metric for judging whether quadratic interpolation is
not applicable and if so uses linear interpolation; otherwise it uses
the default quadratic interpolation.  TRUNCDONTCUT is a flag that
removes the default cutting of the time-step to limit errors in the
actual calculation of impulse-response related quantities.  COMPACTREL
and COMPACTABS are quantities that control the compaction of the past
history of values stored for convolution.  Larger values of these lower
accuracy but usually increase simulation speed.  These are to be used
with the TRYTOCOMPACT option, described in the .OPTIONS section.
TRUNCNR is a flag that turns on the use of Newton-Raphson iterations to
determine an appropriate timestep in the timestep control routines. The
default is a trial and error procedure by cutting the previous timestep
in half.  REL and ABS are quantities that control the setting of
breakpoints.

The option most worth experimenting with for increasing the speed of
simulation is REL.  The default value of 1 is usually safe from the
point of view of accuracy but occasionally increases computation time.
A value greater than 2 eliminates all breakpoints and may be worth
trying depending on the nature of the rest of the circuit, keeping in
mind that it might not be safe from the viewpoint of accuracy.
Breakpoints may usually be entirely eliminated if it is expected the
circuit will not display sharp discontinuities.  Values between 0 and 1
are usually not required but may be used for setting many breakpoints.

COMPACTREL may also be experimented with when the option TRYTOCOMPACT is
specified in a .OPTIONS card.  The legal range is between 0 and 1.
Larger values usually decrease the accuracy of the simulation but in
some cases improve speed.  If TRYTOCOMPACT is not specified on a
.OPTIONS card, history compaction is not attempted and accuracy is high.
NOCONTROL, TRUNCDONTCUT and NOSTEPLIMIT also tend to increase speed at
the expense of accuracy.
        </p>
    </body>
</html>
