<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--
To change this template, choose Tools | Templates
and open the template in the editor.
-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd"[
    <!ENTITY mathml "http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    ]>
    <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
        <head>
            <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
            <title>MOSFET</title>
            <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="doc.css"/>
        </head>
        <body>
            <!--

    Copyright (C) 1996 The Regents of the University of California.
    All Rights Reserved.

    Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
    documentation for educational, research and non-profit purposes,
    without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby granted,
    provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and the
    following three paragraphs appear in all copies.

    This software program and documentation are copyrighted by The Regents
    of the University of California. The software program and
    documentation are supplied "as is", without any accompanying services
    from The Regents. The Regents does not warrant that the operation of
    the program will be uninterrupted or error-free. The end-user
    understands that the program was developed for research purposes and
    is advised not to rely exclusively on the program for any reason.

    IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
    FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
    INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND
    ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN
    ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THE UNIVERSITY OF
    CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
    A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS"
    BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE
    MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.
            -->
            <span class="intro">
                <big>Spice Modeling</big>
                <br/>	<br/>
                <code>MXXXXXXX ND NG NS NB MNAME [M=VALUE] [L=VALUE] [W=VALUE] [AD=VALUE] [AS=VALUE]
                    [PD=VALUE] [PS=VALUE] [NRD=VALUE] [NRS=VALUE] [OFF]
                    [IC=VDS, VGS, VBS] [TEMP=T]</code>
                <br/>
                <br/>
                Examples:
                <br/>
                <code>M1 24 2 0 20 TYPE1</code><br/>
                <code>M31 2 17 6 10 MODM L=5U W=2U</code><br/>
                <code>M1 2 9 3 0 MOD1 L=10U W=5U AD=100P AS=100P PD=40U PS=40U</code>
            </span>
            <p>
                <var>ND</var>, <var>NG</var>, <var>NS</var>, and <var>NB</var> are the drain,
	    gate, source, and bulk (substrate) nodes, respectively.  <var>MNAME</var> is the model name.
                <var>M</var> is the multiplicity parameter, which simulates m paralleled devices. All MOS models
                support the <var>M</var> parameter. <var>L</var> and <var>W</var> are the channel length and width,
                in meters.  <var>AD</var> and <var>AS</var> are the areas of the drain and source diffusions,
                in meters<sup>2</sup>.
            </p>
            <p>
                Note that the suffix U specifies microns (1e-6 m) and P sq-microns
                (1e-12 m<sup>2</sup>). If any of <var>L</var>, <var>W</var>, <var>AD</var>,
	    or <var>AS</var> are not specified,
                default values are used.  The use of defaults simplifies input file
                preparation, as well as the editing required if device geometries are
                to be changed.  <var>PD</var> and <var>PS</var> are the perimeters of the drain and source
                junctions, in meters.  <var>NRD</var> and <var>NRS</var> designate the equivalent number of
                squares of the drain and source diffusions; these values multiply the
                sheet resistance RSH specified on the .MODEL control line for an
                accurate representation of the parasitic series drain and source
                resistance of each transistor.  <var>PD</var> and <var>PS</var>
	    default to 0.0 while <var>NRD</var> and <var>NRS</var> to 1.0.
                <var>OFF</var> indicates an (optional) initial condition on the
                device for dc analysis.  The (optional) initial condition specification
                using <var>IC</var>=<var>VDS</var>, <var>VGS</var>, <var>VBS</var>
	    is intended for use with the <var>UIC</var> option on the
                .TRAN control line, when a transient analysis is desired starting from
                other than the quiescent operating point.  See the .IC control line for
                a better and more convenient way to specify transient initial conditions.
                The (optional) <var>TEMP</var> value is the temperature at which this device is to
                operate, and overrides the temperature specification on the .OPTION
                control line.  The temperature specification is ONLY valid for level 1,
                2, 3, and 6 MOSFETs, not for level 4 or 5 (BSIM) devices.
            </p>
            <a name="model">MOSFET Models (NMOS/PMOS)</a>
            <p>
                MOSFET models are the central part of NGSPICE, probably because they are
                the most widely used devices in the electronics world. NGSPICE provides
                all the MOSFETs implemented in the original Spice3f and adds several models
                developed by Berkeley's Device Group and other independent groups. Not all
                models below are included in the standard NGSPICE distribution because of
                copyright restrictions.
            </p>
            <p>
                NGSPICE provides four MOSFET device models, which differ in the
                formulation of the I-V characteristic.  The variable <var>LEVEL</var> specifies the
                model to be used:
            </p>

            <table>
                <tbody>
                    <tr><td>LEVEL</td><td>Instance</td><td>Notes</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>1</td><td>Shichman-Hodges</td><td>The classical localInstance</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>2</td><td>MOS2</td><td>Described in [2]</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>3</td><td>MOS3</td><td>A semi-empirical localInstance (see [1])</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>4</td><td>BSIM</td><td>Described in [3]</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>5</td><td>BSIM2</td><td>Described in [5]</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>6</td><td>MOS6</td><td>Described in [2]</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>8</td><td>BSIM3</td><td>Described in [13]</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>9</td><td>MOS9</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>10</td><td>B3SOI</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>17</td><td>HiSIM1</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>29</td><td>B3SOIPD</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>30</td><td>B3SOIFD</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>31</td><td>B3SOIDD</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>49</td><td>BSIM3v1s</td><td>n/a (Serban Version)</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>50</td><td>BSIM3v1</td><td>n/a (Berkeley Version)</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>51</td><td>BSIM3v1a</td><td>n/a (Alan Version)</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>52</td><td>BSIM3v0</td><td>n/a (Berkeley Version)</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>14</td><td>BSIM4</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
                    <tr><td>62</td><td>STAG</td><td>n/a</td></tr>
                </tbody>
            </table>
            <br/>
            <br/>
            <p>
                The dc characteristics of the level 1 through level 3 MOSFETs are
                defined by the device parameters <var>VTO</var>, <var>KP</var>, <var>LAMBDA</var>,
                <var>PHI</var> and <var>GAMMA</var>.  These
                parameters are computed by NGSPICE if process parameters (<var>NSUB</var>, <var>TOX</var>, ...)
                are given, but users specified values always override.  <var>VTO</var> is positive
                (negative) for enhancement mode and negative (positive) for depletion
                mode N-channel (P-channel) devices.  Charge storage is modelled by three
                constant capacitors, <var>CGSO</var>, <var>CGDO</var>, and <var>CGBO</var> which represent overlap
                capacitances, by the nonlinear thin-oxide capacitance which is
                distributed among the gate, source, drain, and bulk regions, and by the
                nonlinear depletion-layer capacitances for both substrate junctions
                divided into bottom and periphery, which vary as the <var>MJ</var> and <var>MJSW</var> power
                of junction voltage respectively, and are determined by the parameters
                <var>CBD</var>, <var>CBS</var>, <var>CJ</var>, <var>CJSW</var>, <var>MJ</var>, <var>MJSW</var> and <var>PB</var>.
	    Charge storage effects are modelled
                by the piecewise linear voltages-dependent capacitance model proposed by
                Meyer.  The thin-oxide charge-storage effects are treated slightly
                different for the <var>LEVEL</var>=1 model.  These voltage-dependent capacitances
                are included only if <var>TOX</var> is specified in the input description and they
                are represented using Meyer's formulation.
            </p>
            <p>
                There is some overlap among the parameters describing the junctions,
                e.g. the reverse current can be input either as <var>IS</var> (in A) or as <var>JS</var> (in
                A/m<sup>2</sup>). Whereas the first is an absolute value the second is
                multiplied by <var>AD</var> and <var>AS</var> to give the reverse current of the drain and
                source junctions respectively.  This methodology has been chosen since
                there is no sense in relating always junction characteristics with <var>AD</var>
                and <var>AS</var> entered on the device line; the areas can be defaulted.  The same
                idea applies also to the zero-bias junction capacitances <var>CBD</var> and <var>CBS</var> (in
                F) on one hand, and <var>CJ</var> (in F/m<sup>2</sup>) on the other.  The parasitic
                drain and source series resistance can be expressed as either <var>RD</var> and <var>RS</var>
                (in ohms) or <var>RSH</var> (in ohms/sq.), the latter being multiplied by the
                number of squares <var>NRD</var> and <var>NRS</var> input on the device line.
            </p>
            <p>
                A discontinuity in the MOS level 3 model with respect to the <var>KAPPA</var>
                parameter has been detected (see [10]).  The supplied fix has been
                implemented in Spice3f2 and later.  Since this fix may affect parameter
                fitting, the option "BADMOS3" may be set to use the old implementation
                (see the section on simulation variables and the ".OPTIONS" line).
                NGSPICE level 1, 2, 3 and 6 parameters:
            </p>
            <br/>
            <strong>NGSPICE level 1, 2, 3 and 6 parameters:</strong>
            <table border="1">
                <tr><td>Name</td><td>Parameter</td><td>Units </td><td>Default </td><td>Example</td></tr>
                <tr><td>LEVEL</td><td>Instance index</td><td>-</td><td>1</td><td>-</td></tr>
                <tr><td>VTO</td><td>Zero-bias threshold voltage (V<sub>T0</sub>)</td><td>V </td><td>0.0 </td><td>1.0</td></tr>
                <tr><td>KP</td><td>Transconductance parameter</td><td>A/V<sup>2</sup> </td><td>2.0e-5 </td><td>3.1e-5</td></tr>
                <tr><td>GAMMA</td><td>Bulk threshold parameter</td><td>V<sup>1/2</sup> </td><td>0.0 </td><td>0.37</td></tr>
                <tr><td>PHI</td><td>Surface potential (U)</td><td>V </td><td>0.6 </td><td>0.65</td></tr>
                <tr><td>LAMBDA</td><td>Channel-length modulation (MOS1 and MOS2 only) (L)</td><td>1/V </td><td>0.0 </td><td>0.02</td></tr>
                <tr><td>RD</td><td>Drain ohmic resistance</td><td>Z </td><td>0.0 </td><td>1.0</td></tr>
                <tr><td>RS</td><td>Source ohmic resistance</td><td>Z </td><td>0.0 </td><td>1.0</td></tr>
                <tr><td>CBD</td><td>Zero-bias B-D junction capacitance</td><td>F </td><td>0.0 </td><td>20fF</td></tr>
                <tr><td>CBS</td><td>Zero-bias B-S junction capacitance</td><td>F </td><td>0.0 </td><td>20fF</td></tr>
                <tr><td>IS</td><td>Bulk junction saturation current (I<sub>S</sub>)</td><td>A </td><td>1.0e-14 </td><td>1.0e-15</td></tr>
                <tr><td>PB</td><td>Bulk junction potential</td><td>V </td><td>0.8 </td><td>0.87</td></tr>
                <tr><td>CGSO</td><td>Gate-source overlap capacitance per meter channel width</td><td>F/m </td><td>0.0 </td><td>4.0e-11</td></tr>
                <tr><td>CGDO</td><td>Gate-drain overlap capacitance per meter channel width</td><td>F/m </td><td>0.0 </td><td>4.0e-11</td></tr>
                <tr><td>CGBO</td><td>Gate-bulk overlap capacitance per meter channel length</td><td>F/m </td><td>0.0 </td><td>2.0e-10</td></tr>
                <tr><td>RSH</td><td>Drain and source diffusion sheet resistance</td><td>Z/[] </td><td>0.0 </td><td>10.0</td></tr>
                <tr><td>CJ</td><td>Zero-bias bulk junction bottom cap. per sq-meter of junction area</td><td>F/m<sup>2</sup> </td><td>0.0 </td><td>2.0e-4</td></tr>
                <tr><td>MJ</td><td>Bulk junction bottom grading coeff.</td><td>- </td><td>0.5 </td><td>0.5</td></tr>
                <tr><td>CJSW</td><td>Zero-bias bulk junction sidewall cap. per meter of junction perimeter</td><td>F/m </td><td>0.0 </td><td>1.0e-9</td></tr>
                <tr><td>MJSW</td><td>Bulk junction sidewall grading coeff. - </td><td>0.50(level1),</td><td>0.33(level2,</td><td>3)</td></tr>
                <tr><td>JS</td><td>Bulk junction saturation current per sq-meter of junction</td><td>area</td><td>A/m<sup>2</sup> </td><td>1.0e-8</td></tr>
                <tr><td>TOX</td><td>Oxide thickness</td><td>meter </td><td>1.0e-7 </td><td>1.0e-7</td></tr>
                <tr><td>NSUB</td><td>Substrate doping</td><td>1/cm<sup>3</sup> </td><td>0.0 </td><td>4.0e15</td></tr>
                <tr><td>NSS</td><td>Surface state density</td><td>1/cm<sup>2</sup> </td><td>0.0 </td><td>1.0e10</td></tr>
                <tr><td>NFS</td><td>Fast surface state density</td><td>1/cm<sup>2</sup> </td><td>0.0 </td><td>1.0e10</td></tr>
                <tr><td>TPG</td><td>Type of gate material: +1 opp. to substrate, -1 same as substrate, 0  Al gate</td><td>- </td><td>1.0</td><td>-</td></tr>
                <tr><td>XJ</td><td>Metallurgical junction depth</td><td>meter </td><td>0.0 </td><td>1M</td></tr>
                <tr><td>LD</td><td>Lateral diffusion</td><td>meter </td><td>0.0 </td><td>0.8M</td></tr>
                <tr><td>UO</td><td>Surface mobility</td><td>cm<sup>2/Vs</sup> </td><td>600 </td><td>700</td></tr>
                <tr><td>UCRIT</td><td>Critical field for mobility degradation (MOS2 only)</td><td>V/cm </td><td>1.0e4 </td><td>1.0e4</td></tr>
                <tr><td>UEXP</td><td>Critical field exponent in mobility degradation (MOS2 only)</td><td>- </td><td>0.0 </td><td>0.1</td></tr>
                <tr><td>UTRA</td><td>Transverse field coeff. (mobility) (deleted for MOS2)</td><td>- </td><td>0.0 </td><td>0.3</td></tr>
                <tr><td>VMAX</td><td>Maximum drift velocity of carriers</td><td>m/s </td><td>0.0 </td><td>5.0e4</td></tr>
                <tr><td>NEFF</td><td>Total channel-charge (fixed and mobile) coefficient (MOS2 only)</td><td>- </td><td>1.0 </td><td>5.0</td></tr>
                <tr><td>KF</td><td>Flicker noise coefficient</td><td>- </td><td>0.0 </td><td>1.0e-26</td></tr>
                <tr><td>AF</td><td>Flicker noise exponent</td><td>- </td><td>1.0 </td><td>1.2</td></tr>
                <tr><td>FC</td><td>Coefficient for forward-bias depletion capacitance</td><td>formula</td><td>- </td><td>0.5</td></tr>
                <tr><td>DELTA</td><td>Width effect on threshold voltage (MOS2 and MOS3)</td><td>- </td><td>0.0 </td><td>1.0</td></tr>
                <tr><td>THETA</td><td>Mobility modulation (MOS3 only)</td><td>1/V </td><td>0.0 </td><td>0.1</td></tr>
                <tr><td>ETA</td><td>Static feedback (MOS3 only)</td><td>- </td><td>0.0 </td><td>1.0</td></tr>
                <tr><td>KAPPA</td><td>Saturation field factor (MOS3 only)</td><td>- </td><td>0.2 </td><td>0.5</td></tr>
                <tr><td>TNOM</td><td>Parameter measurement temperature</td><td><sup>o</sup>C </td><td>27 </td><td>50</td></tr>
            </table>

            <p>
                The level 3 model available into ngspice takes into account
                length and width mask adjustments (<var>xl</var> and <var>xw</var>)
                and device width narrowing due to diffusion (<var>wd</var>).
            </p>
            <p>
                The level 4 and level 5 (BSIM1 and BSIM2) parameters are all values
                obtained from process characterization, and can be generated
                automatically.  J. Pierret [4] describes a means of generating a
                'process' file, and the program Proc2Mod provided with NGSPICE converts
                this file into a sequence of BSIM1 ".MODEL" lines suitable for inclusion
                in a NGSPICE input file.  Parameters marked below with anin the l/w
                column also have corresponding parameters with a length and width
                dependency.  For example, <var>VFB</var> is the basic parameter with units of
                Volts, and <var>LVFB</var> and <var>WVFB</var> also exist and have units of Volt-Mmeter The
                formula
            </p>
        <math xmlns="&mathml;" class="equation">
            <mrow>
                <mrow>
                    <mi>P</mi>
                </mrow>
                <mo>=</mo>
                <mrow>
                    <mrow>
                        <msub>
                            <mi>P</mi>
                            <mi>0</mi>
                        </msub>
                    </mrow>
                    <mo>+</mo>
                    <mrow>
                        <mfrac>
                            <mrow>
                                <msub>
                                    <mi>P</mi>
                                    <mi>L</mi>
                                </msub>
                            </mrow>
                            <mrow>
                                <msub>
                                    <mi>L</mi>
                                    <mi>effective</mi>
                                </msub>
                            </mrow>
                        </mfrac>
                    </mrow>
                    <mo>+</mo>
                    <mrow>
                        <mfrac>
                            <mrow>
                                <msub>
                                    <mi>P</mi>
                                    <mi>W</mi>
                                </msub>
                            </mrow>
                            <mrow>
                                <msub>
                                    <mi>W</mi>
                                    <mi>effective</mi>
                                </msub>
                            </mrow>
                        </mfrac>
                    </mrow>
                </mrow>
            </mrow>
        </math>
        <br/>
        <p>
            is used to evaluate the parameter for the actual device specified with
        </p>
        <br/>
        <math xmlns="&mathml;" class="equation">
            <mrow>
                <mrow>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>L</mi>
                        <mi>effective</mi>
                    </msub>
                </mrow>
                <mo>=</mo>
                <mrow>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>L</mi>
                        <mi>input</mi>
                    </msub>
                    <mo>-</mo>
                    <mi>DL</mi>
                </mrow>
            </mrow>
        </math>
        <br/>
        <br/>
        and
        <br/>
        <br/>
        <math xmlns="&mathml;" class="equation">
            <mrow>
                <mrow>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>W</mi>
                        <mi>effective</mi>
                    </msub>
                </mrow>
                <mo>=</mo>
                <mrow>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>W</mi>
                        <mi>input</mi>
                    </msub>
                    <mo>-</mo>
                    <mi>DW</mi>
                </mrow>
            </mrow>
        </math>
        <p>
            Note that unlike the other models in NGSPICE, the BSIM model is designed
            for use with a process characterization system that provides all the
            parameters, thus there are no defaults for the parameters, and leaving
            one out is considered an error.  For an example set of parameters and
            the format of a process file, see the SPICE2 implementation notes[3].
        </p>
        <p>
            For more information on BSIM2, see reference [5].
        </p>
        <!--
        NGSPICE BSIM (level 4) parameters.

        @multitable @columnfractions .15 .55 .20 .10
        @item name  @tab  parameter                                            @tab units       @tab  l/w
        @item VFB   @tab  flat-band voltage                                    @tab   V         @tab   *
        @item PHI   @tab  surface inversion potential                          @tab   V         @tab   *
        @item K1    @tab  body effect coefficient                              @tab  V<sup>(1/2)</sup>    @tab   *
        @item K2    @tab  drain/source depletion charge-sharing coefficient    @tab   -         @tab   *
        @item ETA   @tab  zero-bias drain-induced barrier-lowering coefficient @tab   -         @tab   *
        @item MUZ   @tab  zero-bias mobility                                   @tab cm<sup>2</sup>/V-s  @tab
        @item DL    @tab  shortening of channel                                @tab   Mm        @tab
        @item DW    @tab  narrowing of channel                                 @tab   Mm        @tab
        @item U0    @tab  zero-bias transverse-field mobility degradation
        coefficient                                          @tab   V@math{^-1}    @tab   *
        @item U1    @tab  zero-bias velocity saturation coefficient            @tab   Mm/V      @tab   *
        @item X2MZ  @tab  sens. of mobility to substrate bias at V_ds=0        @tab cm<sup>2</sup>/V-s  @tab   *
        @item X2E   @tab  sens. of drain-induced barrier lowering effect to
        substrate bias                                       @tab   V@math{^-1}    @tab   *
        @item X3E   @tab  sens. of drain-induced barrier lowering effect to
        drain bias at V_ds=V_dd                              @tab   V@math{^-1}    @tab   *
        @item X2U0  @tab  sens. of transverse field mobility degradation
        effect to substrate bias                             @tab   V<sup>2</sup>    @tab   *
        @item X2U1  @tab  sens. of velocity saturation effect to substrate
        bias                                                 @tab  MmV<sup>2</sup>   @tab   *
        @item MUS   @tab  mobility at zero substrate bias and at V_ds=V_dd     @tab  cm<sup>2</sup>/V<sup>2</sup>-s @tab
        @item X2MS  @tab  sens. of mobility to substrate bias at V_ds=V_dd     @tab  cm<sup>2</sup>/V<sup>2</sup>-s @tab   *
        @item X3MS  @tab  sens. of mobility to drain bias at V_ds=V_dd         @tab  cm<sup>2</sup>/V<sup>2</sup>-s @tab   *
        @item X3U1  @tab  sens. of velocity saturation effect on drain bias
        at V_ds=V_dd                                         @tab  MmV<sup>2</sup>   @tab   *
        @item TOX   @tab  gate oxide thickness                                 @tab  Mm         @tab
        @item TEMP  @tab  temperature at which parameters were measured        @tab  C          @tab
        @item VDD   @tab  measurement bias range                               @tab  V          @tab
        @item CGDO  @tab  gate-drain overlap capacitance per meter channel
        width                                                @tab  F/m        @tab
        @item CGSO  @tab  gate-source overlap capacitance per meter channel
        width                                                @tab  F/m        @tab
        @item CGBO  @tab  gate-bulk overlap capacitance per meter channel
        length                                               @tab  F/m        @tab
        @item XPART @tab  gate-oxide capacitance-charge model flag             @tab   -         @tab
        @item N0    @tab  zero-bias subthreshold slope coefficient             @tab   -         @tab   *
        @item NB    @tab  sens. of subthreshold slope to substrate bias        @tab   -         @tab   *
        @item ND    @tab  sens. of subthreshold slope to drain bias            @tab   -         @tab   *
        @item RSH   @tab  drain and source diffusion sheet resistance          @tab   Z/[]      @tab
        @item JS    @tab  source drain junction current density                @tab   A/m<sup>2</sup>     @tab
        @item PB    @tab  built in potential of source drain junction          @tab   V         @tab
        @item MJ    @tab  Grading coefficient of source drain junction         @tab   -         @tab
        @item BSW   @tab  built in potential of source, drain junction
        sidewall                                             @tab   V         @tab
        @item MJSW  @tab  grading coefficient of source drain junction
        sidewall                                             @tab   -         @tab
        @item CJ    @tab  Source drain junction capacitance per unit area      @tab   F/m<sup>2</sup>     @tab
        @item CJSW  @tab  source drain junction sidewall capacitance per
        unit length                                          @tab   F/m       @tab
        @item WDF   @tab  source drain junction default width                  @tab   m         @tab
        @item DELL  @tab  Source drain junction length reduction               @tab   m         @tab
        @end multitable

        <p>
            XPART = 0 selects a 40/60 drain/source charge partition in saturation,
            while XPART=1 selects a 0/100 drain/source charge partition.
            </p>
            <p>
            ND, NG, and NS are the drain, gate, and source nodes, respectively.
            MNAME is the model name, AREA is the area factor, and OFF indicates an
            (optional) initial condition on the device for dc analysis.  If the area
            factor is omitted, a value of 1.0 is assumed.  The (optional) initial
            condition specification, using IC=VDS, VGS is intended for use with the
            UIC option on the .TRAN control line, when a transient analysis is
            desired starting from other than the quiescent operating point.  See the
            .IC control line for a better way to set initial conditions.

        </p>
        -->
        <!--
         * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr>
     *       <th>Mos2 - localInstance parameters (input-only)</th>
     *     </tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>off</td><td>Device initially off</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ic</td><td>Vector of D-S, G-S, B-S voltages</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr>
     *       <th>Mos2 - localInstance parameters (input-output)</th>
     *     </tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>m</td><td>Multiplicity</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>l</td><td>Length</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>w</td><td>Width</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ad</td><td>Drain area</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>as</td><td>Source area</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>pd</td><td>Drain perimeter</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ps</td><td>Source perimeter</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nrd</td><td>Drain squares</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nrs</td><td>Source squares</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>icvds</td><td>Initial D-S voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>icvgs</td><td>Initial G-S voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>icvbs</td><td>Initial B-S voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>temp</td><td>Instance operating temperature</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr>
     *       <th>Mos2 - localInstance parameters (output-only)</th>
     *     </tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>id</td><td>Drain current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cd</td><td>?                                       </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ibd</td><td>B-D junction current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ibs</td><td>B-S junction current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>is</td><td>Source current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ig</td><td>Gate current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ib</td><td>Bulk current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vgs</td><td>Gate-Source voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vds</td><td>Drain-Source voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vbs</td><td>Bulk-Source voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vbd</td><td>Bulk-Drain voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>dnode</td><td>drain node index</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gnode</td><td>gate node index</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>snode</td><td>source node index</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>bnode</td><td>bulk node index</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>dnodeprime</td><td>internal drain node index</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>snodeprime</td><td>internal source node index</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>von</td><td> </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vdsat</td><td>Saturation drain voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>sourcevcrit</td><td>Critical source voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>drainvcrit</td><td>Critical drain voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>rs</td><td>Source resistance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>sourceconductance</td><td>Source conductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>rd</td><td>Drain resistance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>drainconductance</td><td>Drain conductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gm</td><td>Transconductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gds</td><td>Drain-Source conductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gmb</td><td>Bulk-Source transconductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gmbs</td><td> </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gbd</td><td>Bulk-Drain conductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gbs</td><td>Bulk-Source conductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbd</td><td>Bulk-Drain capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbs</td><td>Bulk-Source capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgs</td><td>Gate-Source capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgd</td><td>Gate-Drain capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgb</td><td>Gate-Bulk capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbd0</td><td>Zero-Bias B-D junction capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbdsw0</td><td> </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbs0</td><td>Zero-Bias B-S junction capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbssw0</td><td> </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cqgs</td><td>Capacitance due to gate-source charge storage</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr>
     *       <th> </th>
     *     </tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>cqgd</td><td>Capacitance due to gate-drain charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cqgb</td><td>Capacitance due to gate-bulk charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cqbd</td><td>Capacitance due to bulk-drain charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cqbs</td><td>Capacitance due to bulk-source charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>qgs</td><td>Gate-Source charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>qgd</td><td>Gate-Drain charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>qgb</td><td>Gate-Bulk charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>qbd</td><td>Bulk-Drain charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>qbs</td><td>Bulk-Source charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>p</td><td>Instantaneous power</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr>
     *       <th>Mos2 - localInstance parameters (input-only)</th>
     *     </tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>nmos</td><td>N type MOSfet localInstance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>pmos</td><td>P type MOSfet localInstance</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr>
     *       <th>Mos2 - localInstance parameters (input-output)</th>
     *     </tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>vto</td><td>Threshold voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vt0</td><td>null</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>kp</td><td>Transconductance parameter</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gamma</td><td>Bulk threshold parameter</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>phi</td><td>Surface potential</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>lambda</td><td>Channel length modulation</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>rd</td><td>Drain ohmic resistance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>rs</td><td>Source ohmic resistance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbd</td><td>B-D junction capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbs</td><td>B-S junction capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>is</td><td>Bulk junction sat. current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>pb</td><td>Bulk junction potential</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgso</td><td>Gate-source overlap cap.                </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgdo</td><td>Gate-drain overlap cap.                 </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgbo</td><td>Gate-bulk overlap cap.                  </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>rsh</td><td>Sheet resistance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cj</td><td>Bottom junction cap per area</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>mj</td><td>Bottom grading coefficient</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cjsw</td><td>Side junction cap per area</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>mjsw</td><td>Side grading coefficient</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>js</td><td>Bulk jct. sat. current density</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>tox</td><td>Oxide thickness</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ld</td><td>Lateral diffusion</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>u0</td><td>Surface mobility</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>uo</td><td>null</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>fc</td><td>Forward bias jct. fit param.            </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nsub</td><td>Substrate doping</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>tpg</td><td>Gate type</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nss</td><td>Surface state density</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>delta</td><td>Width effect on threshold</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>uexp</td><td>Crit. field exp for mob. deg.           </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ucrit</td><td>Crit. field for mob. degradation</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vmax</td><td>Maximum carrier drift velocity</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>xj</td><td>Junction depth</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>neff</td><td>Total channel charge coeff.             </td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nfs</td><td>Fast surface state density</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>tnom</td><td>Parameter measurement temperature</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>kf</td><td>Flicker noise coefficient</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>af</td><td>Flicker noise exponent</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr>
     *       <th>Mos2 - localInstance parameters (output-only)</th>
     *     </tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>type</td><td>N-channel or P-channel MOS</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     *  </table>
     * *
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr><th>Mos6 - localInstance parameters (input-output)</th></tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>l</td><td>Length</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>w</td><td>Width</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ad</td><td>Drain area</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>as</td><td>Source area</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>pd</td><td>Drain perimeter</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ps</td><td>Source perimeter</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nrd</td><td>Drain squares</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nrs</td><td>Source squares</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>icvds</td><td>Initial D-S voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>icvgs</td><td>Initial G-S voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>icvbs</td><td>Initial B-S voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>temp</td><td>Instance temperature</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr><th>Mos6 - localInstance parameters (output-only)</th></tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>id</td><td>Drain current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cd</td><td>Drain current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>is</td><td>Source current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ig</td><td>Gate current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ib</td><td>Bulk current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ibs</td><td>B-S junction capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ibd</td><td>B-D junction capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vgs</td><td>Gate-Source voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vds</td><td>Drain-Source voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vbs</td><td>Bulk-Source voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vbd</td><td>Bulk-Drain voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>dnode</td><td>the drain node index</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gnode</td><td>the gate node index</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>snode</td><td>the source node index</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>bnode</td><td>the node index</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>dnodeprime</td><td>Number of int. drain node</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>snodeprime</td><td>Number of int. source node</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>rs</td><td>Source resistance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>sourceconductance</td><td>Source conductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>rd</td><td>Drain resistance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>drainconductance</td><td>Drain conductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>von</td><td>Turn-on voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vdsat</td><td>Saturation drain voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>sourcevcrit</td><td>Critical source voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>drainvcrit</td><td>Critical drain voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gmbs</td><td>Bulk-Source transconductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gm</td><td>Transconductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gds</td><td>Drain-Source conductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gbd</td><td>Bulk-Drain conductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gbs</td><td>Bulk-Source conductance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgs</td><td>Gate-Source capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgd</td><td>Gate-Drain capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgb</td><td>Gate-Bulk capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbd</td><td>Bulk-Drain capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbs</td><td>Bulk-Source capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbd0</td><td>Zero-Bias B-D junction capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbdsw0</td><td>?</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbs0</td><td>Zero-Bias B-S junction capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbssw0</td><td>?</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cqgs</td><td>Capacitance due to gate-source charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cqgd</td><td>Capacitance due to gate-drain charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cqgb</td><td>Capacitance due to gate-bulk charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cqbd</td><td>Capacitance due to bulk-drain charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cqbs</td><td>Capacitance due to bulk-source charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>qgs</td><td>Gate-Source charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>qgd</td><td>Gate-Drain charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>qgb</td><td>Gate-Bulk charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>qbd</td><td>Bulk-Drain charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>qbs</td><td>Bulk-Source charge storage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>p</td><td>Instantaneous power</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr><th>Mos6 - localInstance parameters (input-only)</th></tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>nmos</td><td>N type MOSfet localInstance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>pmos</td><td>P type MOSfet localInstance</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr><th>Mos6 - localInstance parameters (input-output)</th></tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>vto</td><td>Threshold voltage</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>vt0</td><td>null</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>kv</td><td>Saturation voltage factor</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nv</td><td>Saturation voltage coeff.</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>kc</td><td>Saturation current factor</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nc</td><td>Saturation current coeff.</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nvth</td><td>Threshold voltage coeff.</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ps</td><td>Sat. current modification  par.</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gamma</td><td>Bulk threshold parameter</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>gamma1</td><td>Bulk threshold parameter 1</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>sigma</td><td>Static feedback effect par.</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>phi</td><td>Surface potential</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>lambda</td><td>Channel length modulation param.</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>lambda0</td><td>Channel length modulation param. 0</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>lambda1</td><td>Channel length modulation param. 1</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>rd</td><td>Drain ohmic resistance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>rs</td><td>Source ohmic resistance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbd</td><td>B-D junction capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cbs</td><td>B-S junction capacitance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>is</td><td>Bulk junction sat. current</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>pb</td><td>Bulk junction potential</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgso</td><td>Gate-source overlap cap.</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgdo</td><td>Gate-drain overlap cap.</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cgbo</td><td>Gate-bulk overlap cap.</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>rsh</td><td>Sheet resistance</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cj</td><td>Bottom junction cap per area</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>mj</td><td>Bottom grading coefficient</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>cjsw</td><td>Side junction cap per area</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>mjsw</td><td>Side grading coefficient</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>js</td><td>Bulk jct. sat. current density</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ld</td><td>Lateral diffusion</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>tox</td><td>Oxide thickness</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>u0</td><td>Surface mobility</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>uo</td><td>null</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>fc</td><td>Forward bias jct. fit param.</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>tpg</td><td>Gate type</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nsub</td><td>Substrate doping</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>nss</td><td>Surface state density</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>tnom</td><td>Parameter measurement temperature</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr><th>Mos6 - localInstance parameters (input-only)</th></tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>off</td><td>Device initially off</td></tr>
     *     <tr><td>ic</td><td>Vector of D-S, G-S, B-S voltages</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     * </table>
     * <table>
     *   <thread>
     *     <tr><th>Mos6 - localInstance parameters (output-only)</th></tr>
     *   </thread>
     *   <tbody>
     *     <tr><td>type</td><td>N-channel or P-channel MOS</td></tr>
     *   </tbody>
     *  </table>

        -->
        </body>
    </html>
