<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

Copyright (C) 1996 The Regents of the University of California.
All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for educational, research and non-profit purposes,
without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and the
following three paragraphs appear in all copies.

This software program and documentation are copyrighted by The Regents
of the University of California. The software program and
documentation are supplied "as is", without any accompanying services
from The Regents. The Regents does not warrant that the operation of
the program will be uninterrupted or error-free. The end-user
understands that the program was developed for research purposes and
is advised not to rely exclusively on the program for any reason.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND
ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS"
BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE
MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.
-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
        <title>TODO supply a title</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <p>
Simulator Variables (.OPTIONS)


Various parameters of the simulations available in Ngspice can be altered
to control the accuracy, speed, or default values for some devices.
These parameters may be changed via the "set" command (described later
in the section on the interactive front-end) or via the ".OPTIONS" line:

 General form:

<code>
     .OPTIONS OPT1 OPT2 ... (or OPT=OPTVAL ...)
</code>


 Examples:

<code>
     .OPTIONS RELTOL=.005 TRTOL=8
</code>


The options line allows the user to reset program control and user
options for specific simulation purposes.  Additional options for Nutmeg
may be specified as well and take effect when Nutmeg reads the input
file.  Options specified to Nutmeg via the 'set' command are also passed
on to NGSPICE as if specified on a .OPTIONS line.  See the following
section on the interactive command interpreter for the parameters which
may be set with a .OPTIONS line and the format of the 'set' command.
Any combination of the following options may be included, in any order.
'x' (below) represents some positive number.

@vtable @code

@item ABSTOL=x

resets the absolute current error tolerance of the program.  The default
value is 1 picoamp.

@item BADMOS3

Use the older version of the MOS3 model with the "kappa" discontinuity.

@item CHGTOL=x

resets the charge tolerance of the program.  The default value is
1.0e-14.

@item DEFAD=x

resets the value for MOS drain diffusion area; the default is 0.0.

@item DEFAS=x

resets the value for MOS source diffusion area; the default is 0.0.

@item DEFL=x

resets the value for MOS channel length; the default is 100.0
micrometer.

@item DEFW=x

resets the value for MOS channel width; the default is 100.0 micrometer.

@item GMIN=x

resets the value of GMIN, the minimum conductance allowed by the
program.  The default value is 1.0e-12.

@item ITL1=x

resets the dc iteration limit.  The default is 100.

@item ITL2=x

resets the dc transfer curve iteration limit.  The default is 50.

@item ITL3=x

resets the lower transient analysis iteration limit.  the default value
is 4.  (Note: not implemented in Ngspice).

@item ITL4=x

resets the transient analysis timepoint iteration limit.  the default is
10.

@item ITL5=x

resets the transient analysis total iteration limit.  the default is
5000.  Set ITL5=0 to omit this test.  (Note: not implemented in Ngspice).

@item KEEPOPINFO

Retain the operating point information when either an AC, Distortion, or
Pole-Zero analysis is run.  This is particularly useful if the circuit
is large and you do not want to run a (redundant) ".OP" analysis.

@item METHOD=name

sets the numerical integration method used by NGSPICE.  Possible names are
"Gear" or "trapezoidal" (or just "trap").  The default is trapezoidal.

@item PIVREL=x

resets the relative ratio between the largest column entry and an
acceptable pivot value. The default value is 1.0e-3.  In the numerical
pivoting algorithm the allowed minimum pivot value is determined by
EPSREL=AMAX1(PIVREL*MAXVAL, PIVTOL) where MAXVAL is the maximum element
in the column where a pivot is sought (partial pivoting).

@item PIVTOL=x

resets the absolute minimum value for a matrix entry to be accepted as a
pivot.  The default value is 1.0e-13.

@item RELTOL=x

resets the relative error tolerance of the program.  The default value
is 0.001 (0.1%).

@item TEMP=x

Resets the operating temperature of the circuit.  The default value is
27 deg C (300 deg K).  TEMP can be overridden by a temperature
specification on any temperature dependent instance.

@item TNOM=x

resets the nominal temperature at which device parameters are measured.
The default value is 27 deg C (300 deg K).  TNOM can be overridden by a
specification on any temperature dependent device model.

@item TRTOL=x

resets the transient error tolerance.  The default value is 7.0.  This
parameter is an estimate of the factor by which NGSPICE overestimates the
actual truncation error.

@item TRYTOCOMPACT

Applicable only to the LTRA model.  When specified, the simulator tries
to condense LTRA transmission lines' past history of input voltages and
currents.

@item VNTOL=x

resets the absolute voltage error tolerance of the program.  The default
value is 1 microvolt.

@end vtable

In addition, the following options have the listed effect when operating
in spice2 emulation mode:

@table @code

@item ACCT

causes accounting and run time statistics to be printed

@item LIST

causes the summary listing of the input data to be printed

@item NOMOD

suppresses the printout of the model parameters

@item NOPAGE

suppresses page ejects

@item NODE

causes the printing of the node table.

@item OPTS

causes the option values to be printed.
        </p>
    </body>
</html>
