<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

Copyright (C) 1996 The Regents of the University of California.
All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for educational, research and non-profit purposes,
without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and the
following three paragraphs appear in all copies.

This software program and documentation are copyrighted by The Regents
of the University of California. The software program and
documentation are supplied "as is", without any accompanying services
from The Regents. The Regents does not warrant that the operation of
the program will be uninterrupted or error-free. The end-user
understands that the program was developed for research purposes and
is advised not to rely exclusively on the program for any reason.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND
ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS"
BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE
MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.
-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
        <title>TODO supply a title</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <p>
Lossless Transmission Lines

 General form:

<code>TXXXXXXX N1 N2 N3 N4 Z0=VALUE [TD=VALUE] [F=FREQ [NL=NRMLEN]]
                     [IC=V1, I1, V2, I2]</code>


 Examples:
<br/>
<code>
  T1 1 0 2 0 Z0=50 TD=10NS
</code>
<p>
N1 and N2 are the nodes at port 1; N3 and N4 are the nodes at port 2.
Z0 is the characteristic impedance.  The length of the line may be
expressed in either of two forms.  The transmission delay, TD, may be
specified directly (as TD=10ns, for example).  Alternatively, a
frequency F may be given, together with NL, the normalized electrical
length of the transmission line with respect to the wavelength in the
line at the frequency F.  If a frequency is specified but NL is omitted,
0.25 is assumed (that is, the frequency is assumed to be the
quarter-wave frequency).  Note that although both forms for expressing
the line length are indicated as optional, one of the two must be
specified.
</p>
Note that this element models only one propagating mode.  If all four
nodes are distinct in the actual circuit, then two modes may be excited.
To simulate such a situation, two transmission-line elements are
required.  (see the example in Appendix A for further clarification.)

The (optional) initial condition specification consists of the voltage
and current at each of the transmission line ports.  Note that the
initial conditions (if any) apply 'only' if the UIC option is specified
on the .TRAN control line.

Note that a lossy transmission line (see below) with zero loss may be
more accurate than than the lossless transmission line due to
implementation details.

Lossy Transmission Lines

 General form:

<code>
  OXXXXXXX N1 N2 N3 N4 MNAME
</code>


 Examples:

<code>
  O23 1 0 2 0 LOSSYMOD
  OCONNECT 10 5 20 5 INTERCONNECT
</code>



This is a two-port convolution model for singleconductor lossy
transmission lines.  N1 and N2 are the nodes at port 1; N3 and N4 are
the nodes at port 2.  Note that a lossy transmission line with zero loss
may be more accurate than than the lossless transmission line due to
implementation details.
        </p>
    </body>
</html>
