<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

Copyright (C) 1996 The Regents of the University of California.
All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for educational, research and non-profit purposes,
without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and the
following three paragraphs appear in all copies.

This software program and documentation are copyrighted by The Regents
of the University of California. The software program and
documentation are supplied "as is", without any accompanying services
from The Regents. The Regents does not warrant that the operation of
the program will be uninterrupted or error-free. The end-user
understands that the program was developed for research purposes and
is advised not to rely exclusively on the program for any reason.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND
ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS"
BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE
MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.
-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
        <title>Transient Analysis</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="doc.css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <p>
            The transient analysis portion of NGSPICE computes the transient output
            variables as a function of time over a user-specified time interval.
            The initial conditions are automatically determined by a dc analysis.
            All sources which are not time dependent (for example, power supplies)
            are set to their dc value.  The transient time interval is specified
            on a @code{.TRAN} control line.
        </p>
        <span class="intro">
            .TRAN:  Transient Analysis
            <br/>
            <br/>
            General form:
            <br/>
            <code>.TRAN TSTEP TSTOP [TSTART [TMAX]]</code><br/>
            <br/>
            Examples:
            <br/>
            <code>.TRAN 1NS 100NS</code><br/>
            <code>.TRAN 1NS 1000NS 500NS</code><br/>
            <code>.TRAN 10NS 1US</code><br/>
        </span>
        <br/>
        <p>
            <var>TSTEP</var> is the printing or plotting increment for lineprinter output.  For
            use with the post-processor, <var>TSTEP</var> is the suggested computing increment.
            <var>TSTOP</var> is the final time, and <var>TSTART</var> is the initial time.  If <var>TSTART</var> is
            omitted, it is assumed to be zero.  The transient analysis always begins
            at time zero.  In the interval [zero, <var>TSTART</var>], the circuit is analyzed
            (to reach a steady state), but no outputs are stored.  In the interval
            [<var>TSTART</var>, <var>TSTOP</var>], the circuit is analyzed and outputs are stored.  <var>TMAX</var>
            is the maximum stepsize that NGSPICE uses; for default, the program
            chooses either <var>TSTEP</var> or (<var>TSTOP</var>-<var>TSTART</var>)/50.0, whichever is smaller.  <var>TMAX</var>
            is useful when one wishes to guarantee a computing interval which is
            smaller than the printer increment, <var>TSTEP</var>.
        </p>
        <p>
            <var>UIC</var> (use initial conditions) is an optional keyword which indicates that
            the user does not want NGSPICE to solve for the quiescent operating point
            before beginning the transient analysis.  If this keyword is specified,
            NGSPICE uses the values specified using IC=... on the various elements as
            the initial transient condition and proceeds with the analysis.  If the
            .IC control line has been specified, then the node voltages on the .IC
            line are used to compute the initial conditions for the devices.  Look
            at the description on the .IC control line for its interpretation when
            <var>UIC</var> is not specified.
        </p>
    </body>
</html>
