<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

Copyright (C) 1996 The Regents of the University of California.
All Rights Reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for educational, research and non-profit purposes,
without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice, this paragraph and the
following three paragraphs appear in all copies.

This software program and documentation are copyrighted by The Regents
of the University of California. The software program and
documentation are supplied "as is", without any accompanying services
from The Regents. The Regents does not warrant that the operation of
the program will be uninterrupted or error-free. The end-user
understands that the program was developed for research purposes and
is advised not to rely exclusively on the program for any reason.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE AND
ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS"
BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE
MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.
-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
        <title>Transistors</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="doc.css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <p>
            The area factor used on the diode, BJT, JFET, and MESFET devices
            determines the number of equivalent parallel devices of a specified
            model.  The affected parameters are marked with an asterisk under the
            heading 'area' in the model descriptions below.  Several geometric
            factors associated with the channel and the drain and source diffusions
            can be specified on the MOSFET device line.
        <p/>
        <p>
            Two different forms of initial conditions may be specified for some
            devices.  The first form is included to improve the dc convergence for
            circuits that contain more than one stable state.  If a device is
            specified OFF, the dc operating point is determined with the terminal
            voltages for that device set to zero.  After convergence is obtained,
            the program continues to iterate to obtain the exact value for the
            terminal voltages.  If a circuit has more than one dc stable state, the
            OFF option can be used to force the solution to correspond to a desired
            state.  If a device is specified OFF when in reality the device is
            conducting, the program still obtains the correct solution (assuming the
            solutions converge) but more iterations are required since the program
            must independently converge to two separate solutions.  The .NODESET
            control line serves a similar purpose as the OFF option.  The .NODESET
            option is easier to apply and is the preferred means to aid convergence.
        </p>
        <p>
            The second form of initial conditions are specified for use with the
            transient analysis.  These are true 'initial conditions' as opposed to
            the convergence aids above.  See the description of the .IC control line
            and the .TRAN control line for a detailed explanation of initial
            conditions.
        </p>
    </body>
</html>
